I really asked you to stretch your mind with this exercise.
I wanted you to synthesize your understanding so far of medical imaging,
clinical settings, stakeholders, and the FDA.
There isn't necessarily a right or a wrong answer here,
but I'm going to give you an example of something
that I might have said for this exercise.
So my hypothetical algorithm would use digital pathology,
and it would be a segmentation algorithm used to
segment and count red versus white blood cells in a blood smear.
This would have to occur in the workflow after the microscopy data was digitized.
But before I got to the pathologist,
I would use this to help pathologists quickly count
the number of red and white blood cells to compute the exact ratio.
If the value is high of red to white,
this could indicate leukemia.
Since my algorithm would give an exact ratio,
I think that this might be beneficial to a pathologist because
it's better than them just estimating the ratio by looking at it.
If that worked, this could be a good tool,
maybe for early detection of leukemia or other types of infections.
Since I haven't learned that much yet about risk scores,
I'm going to guess that in the eyes of the FDA,
this would be a class 1 or a class 2 device,
because I don't think that something like this would be
high risk and be considered class 3.
If my algorithm is wrong,
the pathologist is still going to look at the blood smear anyways,
so they would be able to correct anything
incorrect and the patient wouldn't really be at high risk.